6 New Year English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6 Minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Phil
And I'm Bacca
6 Minute English listeners are truly global
Coming from all over the world including some of the coldest countries on earth
Places like Finland where winter temperatures drop to minus 20 degrees Celsius
Are you good at dealing with the cold fill?
I'm not sure but I do know that I don't like it. What about you Bacca?
Well, I'd rather be too hot and cool down than too cold and try to warm up
Yes, me too. Here in the UK it never gets as cold as Finland
But it's not unusual to see some people dressed in t-shirts while others are wrapped up in warm clothes
Why do people feel the cold so differently?
That's what we'll be discussing in this episode
As well as learning some useful new words and phrases
And as always you'll find all the vocabulary from this episode
Plus a quiz and worksheet on our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
But now I have a question for you Bacca
According to the Guinness Book of World Records
The lowest temperature ever recorded was a very cold minus 89 degrees Celsius
But where?
Was it A the Arctic?
B Antarctica?
Or C the top of Mount Everest?
I'm going to guess B Antarctica.
Okay, well we'll find out the answer at the end of the program
Our experience of cold depends on many things including our genes, culture and place of birth
But perhaps the most obvious thing is the clothes we wear
Professor Ghanin Sartron lives on the icy island of Svalbard
800 miles inside the Arctic Circle
Here she advises presenter Caroline Steele on how to dress against the cold
For BBC World Service program crowd science
So what should we consider when choosing our clothes?
First of all, I would say that perhaps the gender differs
So may you love to know more tolerant perhaps in females?
Then it's of course what you use to?
Are you used to dealing with the cold?
Are you not?
Ghanin says that first and foremost men and women
Filled the cold differently.
She uses the phrase first and foremost to mean more than anything else
She wants to emphasise that something in this case
Someone's gender is the most important thing to consider
There is some debate about whether men or women are more tolerant of the cold
Being tolerant of something means being able to endure it without getting hurt
Another important factor is whether you are used to the cold
If being in cold environments is something you're familiar with
It might sound obvious that someone born in Arctic Svalbard
Would feel less cold than someone born in Brazil
But apart from environmental factors
Are the actual physical differences that allow people to cope better with the cold?
Dr. Kara Ocobok studies reindeer herders in northern Finland
People who live in cold temperatures every day and have done for centuries
She measures their reaction to extreme cold and compares it to ordinary fins
From warmer parts of the country
Here, Kara shares her findings with Caroline Still
From BBC World Services Crowd Science
Okay, and my guess is the reindeer herders Dale Bata in the cold?
Yes and no!
The more data we collect within this area, the more confusing the picture gets
I can say that subjectively at this point
The reindeer herders at least kind of mentally handle the cold far better
They are far less likely to shiver
So, do the reindeer herders deal better with the cold?
The answer is yes and no
A phrase meaning partly and partly not
Used when there's no clear answer to a question
However, Kara does say, subjectively the herders manage better
They don't feel so cold
Subjectively means based on your personal inner experience
Rather than objective facts
And physically, there are differences too
The reindeer herders are less likely to shiver
The shaky movement that cold muscles make to try and warm them up
In fact, how we experience the cold is probably a combination of everything we've discussed
Including genetic adaptations passed on from parents to children
Right, I'm off to find my gloves and Willy Hat
So why don't you reveal the answer to the question fill?
Yes, I asked where the lowest temperature on earth was ever recorded
You said B and Antarctica and that is the right answer
The lowest temperature ever recorded on earth was at the Vostock Research Station
In Antarctica in 1983
Let's recap the vocabulary we've learnt
Starting with the phrase first and foremost
Meaning more than anything else
A person who is tolerant of something is able to endure it without being hurt
If you're used to something, you're familiar with it
The idiom yes and no means partly and partly not
And is used when you can't give a clear answer to a question
The advert subjectively means in a way that's based on your personal experience
Rather than objective facts
And finally, a shiver is the shaking movement made by your muscles
When you feel cold or afraid
Once again, our six minutes are up
But remember, you'll find a quiz and a worksheet for this episode on our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
See you there soon, but for now it's goodbye
Bye